W-14219104-Traffic-inspection-LDS (#697)
mulesoft/docs-runtime-manager: runtime-manager/modules/ROOT/pages/rtm-traffic-inspection.adoc

== Prerequisites 

=== Traffic Inspection Proxy

* An HTTP Inspection Proxy is required, with support for TLS connections to the runtime client, and mTLS connections to the control plane server.
* The Inspection Proxy server does not require client authentication from the agents. The proxy does not require the Mule Agent to present a client certificate. The communication between the Mule Agent and the inspection proxy is TLS, not mTLS.
* The inspection proxy must be provisioned to send a BofA private certificate to the Mule Agent. The Mule Agent uses a Certificate Authority from the JVM's keystore to validate the public certificate presented by the inspection proxy.
* The the inspection proxy and the MuleSoft control plane communicate via mTLS communication. There are two certificates involved:
** The control plane presents a MuleSoft Public server certificate to the Inspection Proxy. The proxy must be provisioned with the correct Certificate Authority to validate the server certificate presented by the MuleSoft Control Plane

> ** The control plane requires a client certificate from the inspection roxy. This certificate must be the one shared by BofA to MuleSoft on April 17th, 2023, with serial number `133250979737618478378908091430693006357` and Common Name `anypoint-test.bankofamerica.com`. 

Reviewer: typo: please replace roxy by proxy

+
[NOTE]

> Communication with the control plane might fail if the certificate does not match the specified serial number and common name.

Reviewer: please replace "might fail" by "will fail"

> = Traffic Inspection for Standalone Mules

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
= Traffic Inspection for Standalone Mule Instances
```

Reviewer 2: The Term Presentation Reference says: 

> Mule instance, Mule instances
> Not "a Mule" or "Mules" or "Mule runtime engines" or "Mule runtimes"

> = Traffic Inspection for Standalone Mules

Reviewer 2: This topic doesn't appear in the TOC on the beta site. Where will it live? 

I think we need to take a closer look at the hierarchy of sections in this topic.
```
= Traffic Inspection for Standalone Mules
== Prerequisites
=== Traffic Inspection Proxy
== Mule Installation and Registration Steps
=== Provision the Truststore of the JVM with the Proxy Root CA
=== Install the Mule Runtime
=== Upgrade the Mule Runtime Agent
=== Register the Mule Runtime
=== Check that the Mule Runtime is Connected to the Control Plane
== Notes
```

The Mule Installation section structure is good (and task oriented) (Bravo!), but I think you can combine some of them and/or link to existing topics to reduce the amount of text here.

I would love to figure out how to flatten the hierarchy a little so that the main tasks (H2) appear in the right-hand TOC, if possible.

ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:keywords: agent, runtime manager, traffic inspection, standalone
:page-deployment-options: hybrid

> The Traffic Inspection feature for Mules adds support in the agent for a forward proxy that is deployed in customers' premises and acts as a man in the middle between the Mule and the control plane by intercepting and inspecting all HTTPS traffic. 

Reviewer 2: Global: Mules -> "Mule instances" or simply "Mule".

Reviewer 2: This sentence is quite complicated. Suggest breaking into two. Also, should "agent" be "Runtime Manager agent", since this is the first mention?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Traffic Inspection feature for Mule instances adds support to the Runtime Manager agent for a forward proxy that is deployed in your environment. This proxy acts as a man-in-the-middle between Mule and the control plane, intercepting and inspecting all HTTPS traffic. 
```

> == Prerequisites 

Reviewer 2: We use "Before You Begin" for prereq topics.

> 

Reviewer 2: Our style is to not have two headings in a row without content.

Reviewer 2: I think you can remove the `=== Traffic Inspection Proxy` heading because there's only one heading in the Prereqs - no need to distinguish. 

Once you revise the bullet list to be more paragraphy, you can make it clear that the prereqs are for the Proxy.

=== Traffic Inspection Proxy

> * An HTTP Inspection Proxy is required, with support for TLS connections to the runtime client, and mTLS connections to the control plane server.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure why this is a bullet list. Perhaps the first two bullets should be a paragraph and the third a separate paragraph/intro to the sub-bullet list?

Review the guidelines in the Style Ref on bullet lists:
https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/MTDT/MuleSoft+CX+Writing+Style+Reference#MuleSoftCXWritingStyleReference-bulletlists

> * The Inspection Proxy server does not require client authentication from the agents. The proxy does not require the Mule Agent to present a client certificate. Communication between the Mule Agent and the inspection proxy is TLS, not mTLS.

Reviewer 2: Global: should "Mule Agent" be "Runtime Manager agent"?

> * The inspection proxy must be provisioned to send a customer-private certificate to the Mule Agent. The Mule Agent uses a Certificate Authority from the JVM's keystore to validate the public certificate presented by the inspection proxy.

Reviewer 2: Any way to make this active voice?

Mule Agent -> Runtime Manager agent (or simply "the agent").

> * The inspection proxy and the MuleSoft control plane communicate via mTLS. There are two certificates involved:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The inspection proxy and the MuleSoft control plane communicate via mTLS. The two certificates involved are:
```

> ** The control plane presents a MuleSoft public server certificate to the inspection proxy. The proxy must be provisioned with the correct Certificate Authority to validate the server certificate presented by the MuleSoft control plane

Reviewer 2: Missing period

> ** The control plane requires a client certificate from the inspection proxy. This certificate must be provided by the customer to MuleSoft. 

Reviewer 2: Any way to reword the second sentence to be active and second person? We typically address the audience as "you" rather than "the customer". In the customer's experience, they are not the customer :>

+
[NOTE]
Communication with the control plane fails if the certificate does not match the specified serial number and common name.

== Mule Installation and Registration Steps

> 

Reviewer 2: Need some content between headings here.

Reviewer 2: Our style is to not use self-referential language like "steps". Instead, reframe to be a task (with an imperative).

== Install and Register Mule

=== Provision the Truststore of the JVM with the Proxy Root CA

> . Identify the folder location of the Java Virtual Machine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Identify the folder location of the Java Virtual Machine (JVM).
```

Reviewer 2: https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/MTDT/MuleSoft+CX+Writing+Style+Reference#MuleSoftCXWritingStyleReference-accessiblelanguage

> . Insert the Root CA of the proxy in the truststore of the mule's JVM: in your terminal window, run the following command, replacing `$JAVA_HOME` with the actual path:

Reviewer 2: Why is "Root" init cap?

Reviewer 2: We don't make product names possessive. Please review the Term Presentation Reference for guidelines on Mule use and capitalization.

> . Insert the Root CA of the proxy in the truststore of the mule's JVM: in your terminal window, run the following command, replacing `$JAVA_HOME` with the actual path:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Insert the root CA of the proxy in the truststore of the Mule JVM:
+
In the terminal window, run the following command, replacing `$JAVA_HOME` with the actual path:
```

+
[source,console,linenums]
----
sudo keytool -import -alias testCert -keystore $JAVA_HOME/jre/lib/security/cacerts -file proxy_cacert.pem
----
+
. Enter the provided password.

> . If you have multiple versions of Java, insert the certificate in the version that is being used by the Mule runtime.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. If you have multiple versions of Java, insert the certificate in the version of Java that the Mule instance uses.
```

[[install-mule-runtime]]

> === Install the Mule Runtime

Reviewer 2: We don't use articles (the) with product names. 

Install Mule Runtime Engine

> . Install the latest available Mule runtime version. You can skip this step if already installed.

Reviewer 2: Should you have a link to the information on installing the latest? I see the link to how to check, but no info on installing. How is installing the latest version different than upgrading? Is this step for people who don't have it installed at all?

Author: PM and devs agreed on adding a link to the Mule installation instructions: https://docs.mulesoft.com/mule-runtime/4.5/runtime-installation-task

+

> To check the latest Mule Runtime version, see xref:release-notes::mule-runtime/mule-esb.adoc[].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To check the latest Mule version, see xref:release-notes::mule-runtime/mule-esb.adoc[].
```

Reviewer 2: Check https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/MTDT/Term+Presentation+Reference for how to refer to Mule.

+
[NOTE] 

> The Mule runtime installation bundle includes both the Mule Runtime Engine and the Mule Runtime Agent. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Mule runtime installation bundle includes both Mule runtime engine and the Runtime Manager agent. 
```

> === Upgrade the Mule Runtime Agent

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== Upgrade the Runtime Manager Agent
```

> Make sure that the version of the Mule Runtime agent is `2.5.6` or later. If you have an earlier version, update the runtime agent before registering.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure that the version of Runtime Manager agent is 2.5.6 or later. If you have an earlier version, update the agent before registering.
```

Reviewer 2: How do I check the agent version?

To update the Runtime agent:

> . Download the agent's zip file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Download the `agent-setup-2.5.6.zip` file.
```

> . Extract the downloaded `agent-setup-2.5.6.zip` file to `$MULE_HOME/bin`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Extract the downloaded ZIP file to `$MULE_HOME/bin`.
```

+
If prompted, overwrite any conflicting files.

> . Do NOT run `amc_setup -U`.

Reviewer 2: (This is not a step.)

> . Do NOT run `amc_setup -U`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+
Do not run `amc_setup -U`.
```

=== Register the Mule Runtime

> . Update the file `wrapper.conf` file with the IP and port of the traffic inspection proxy by following instructions in xref:rtm-agent-proxy-config.adoc#set-up-proxy-server-configuration-in-the-wrapper-conf-file[Set Up Proxy Server Configuration in the wrapper.conf File].

Reviewer 2: file is duplicated here.

> . Login in to the Anypoint console.

Reviewer 2: "Login in"

> . Login in to the Anypoint console.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Log in to Anypoint Platform and select *Runtime Manager*.
```

> . From the Anypoint Platform, select *Runtime Manager*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: Product names don't get articles (the).

> . Click *Servers* in the navigation menu.

Reviewer 2: We use "select" for menu choices (and "click" for buttons).
https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/MTDT/MuleSoft+CX+Writing+Style+Reference#MuleSoftCXWritingStyleReference-%22select,%22%22choose%22

> . Click *Add Server* .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Click *Add Server*.
```

+

> image::traffic-add-server.png[]

Reviewer 2: Missing alt text.

+
. In a terminal window, change the `$MULE_HOME/bin` directory to the Mule instance that you're registering.

> . Paste the command on the command line and append the proxy's IP address or domain name and port, and the `--enable-traffic-inspection` configuration flag. 

Reviewer 2: This seems familiar. I feel like this procedure is covered elsewhere in the RTM (agent?) docs. 
https://docs.mulesoft.com/runtime-manager/installing-and-configuring-runtime-manager-agent

Is there a way to link to a section there and point out the relevant configuration flags?  Do you need to update the configuration flag table on that page with this (new?) `--enable-traffic-inspection` flag?

+
[source,console,linenums]
----
./amc_setup -H {registrationToken} {serverName} -P {proxy ip or hostname} {proxyPort} --enable-traffic-inspection
----
+
[NOTE]
Make sure to leave a space between the proxy's domain name and port number.
+

> . Confirm that the mule has registered successfully. The runtime should show up as *Created* in the Anypoint console:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Confirm that the Mule instance registered successfully. The runtime should appear as *Created* in the Anypoint Platform console:
```

+

> image::mule-registered.png[]

Reviewer 2: Missing alt text

+
. Edit the file `$MULE_HOME/conf/mule-agent.yml` and set the property `authenticationProxy.endpoint` to `null`.

> . Start the mMule.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Start the Mule instance.
```

Reviewer 2: Link to how to start the Mule instance?

> === Check that the Mule Runtime is Connected to the Control Plane

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== Check that the Mule Instance is Connected to the Control Plane
```

Reviewer 2: Consider combining this section with the previous section since it's so short.

> If the connection is successful, you should see the runtime with status *Running* in the Anypoint console:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the connection is successful, the status of the Mule instance appears as  *Running* in the Anypoint Platform console:
```

Reviewer 2: From the Term Presentation reference:
Never use Anypoint without Platform when modifying a common noun: Anypoint Platform account.

> image::mule-running.png[]

Reviewer 2: Missing alt text

> Also, if the connection has been established, the Mule agent terminal window displays the following message:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the connection is established, the agent terminal window displays the following message:
```

[source,console,linenums]
----
INFO  2023-04-19 17:27:41,307 [WebSocketInboundExecutor] [processor: ; event: ] com.mulesoft.agent.transport.handlers.GenericWebSocketHandler: Opening Mule Agent WebSocket
INFO  2023-04-19 17:27:41,316 [WebSocketInboundExecutor] [processor: ; event: ] com.mulesoft.agent.transport.handlers.GenericWebSocketHandler: Mule Agent WebSocket opened
INFO  2023-04-19 17:27:41,316 [pool-12-thread-1] [processor: ; event: ] com.mulesoft.agent.transport.connections.AsyncHttpWSConnectionThread: Mule Agent WebSocket connection was initialized after: 1 attempts
INFO  2023-04-19 17:27:42,179 [WebSocketInboundExecutor] [processor: ; event: ] com.mulesoft.agent.services.security.HandshakeAuthorizationService: WebSocket Client connection authorized
----

> == Notes

Reviewer 2: This seems like a catch-all section. Is there any way to include this information elsewhere? Maybe in the intro? In general, we want to avoid headings like "Notes" and put important things earlier in the topic, with descriptive headings.

Reviewer 2: Take a look at the bullet list guidance. I think this might be better presented as paragraphs.

> * For agent version 2.5.6, you cannot renew mule certificates from Runtime Manager. If you need to renew your certificates, follow the instructions in xref:servers-cert-renewal.adoc#renew-a-certificate-via-the-command-line[Renew a Certificate via the Command Line]. 

Reviewer 2: Mule

> * For agent version 2.5.6, you cannot renew mule certificates from Runtime Manager. If you need to renew your certificates, follow the instructions in xref:servers-cert-renewal.adoc#renew-a-certificate-via-the-command-line[Renew a Certificate via the Command Line]. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* For agent version 2.5.6, you cannot renew Mule certificates from Runtime Manager. To renew your certificates, follow the instructions in xref:servers-cert-renewal.adoc#renew-a-certificate-via-the-command-line[Renew a Certificate via the Command Line]. 
```

Reviewer 2: That anchor looks autogenerated. Might be worth defining a custom one :)

> ** Use version `2.4.37` of the application. 

Reviewer 2: Which application? Certificate?

> ** Certificates are valid for 2 years out of the box.

Reviewer 2: Our style is to spell out numbers one through nine.

Reviewer 2: What does "out of the box" mean in this context? Two years after they're applied?

> * To enable traffic inspection, the Mule runtime and agent must be installed from scratch as per instructions in this document. Upgrading from a standalone Mule deployed in a PCE environment is not supported.

Reviewer 2: Does this topic even apply to PCE? It looks like Hybrid only?

= Traffic Inspection for Standalone Mule Instances
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:keywords: agent, runtime manager, traffic inspection, standalone
:page-deployment-options: hybrid

The traffic inspection feature for standalone Mule instances adds support to the Runtime Manager agent for a forward proxy that is deployed in your environment. This proxy acts as a man-in-the-middle between Mule and the control plane, intercepting and inspecting all HTTPS traffic. 

> To enable traffic inspection, you must install the Mule instance and the Runtime Manager agent from scratch as per the instructions in this document. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable traffic inspection, you must install the Mule instance and the Runtime Manager agent from scratch using the following instructions. 
```
